# Setting up the Arena

This section describes the steps required to prepare the Optitrack system and the drones available in the ISR Flying Arena for an experiment.


### Calibration of the Optitrack System

1. Turn on the Optitrack cameras.

2. Open the Motive software in the Windows computer of the Arena. The password of the computer is 'isrtagus'.

3. Open the calibration layout by pressing the [calibration icon]() in the top right corner.

4. In the [first calibration panel](), click 'Clear Mask' followed by 'Mask visible'. This will mask all the bright spots in the Arena that can be mistaken with markers.

5. Then, in the same calibration panel, click 'Start Wanding'. Using the [calibration tool]()), wand throughout all areas of the Arena. Make sure that the LED indicator ring of all cameras is filled with green light.

6. Click on the 'Calculate' option of the calibration panel. After a couple minutes, the [Calibration Result Report]() will pop up. The calibration performed is only acceptable if an excellent or exceptional calibration result is obtained. If the results are acceptable, press 'Apply' to use the result. If not, press 'Cancel' and repeat the wanding process.

7. The final step of the calibration process is setting the ground plane and the origin. Open the [second calibration panel]() and place the calibration square in the center of the Arena, with the shorter leg pointing towards the window, as shown in [this image](). Then, press 'Set Ground Plane'. The calibration process is finished. 

Note that you can save your calibration file for later use. However, the calibration accuracy naturally deteriorates over time due to ambient factors, such as fluctuation in temperature. Consequently, it is recommended to periodically calibrate the Optitrack system. 

For additional information, consult the [official calibration instructions](https://v22.wiki.optitrack.com/index.php?title=Calibration) available in the OptiTrack Documentation Wiki.


### Preparing the Quadcopter

In general, the only steps required to prepare a vehicle for an experiment are to move it inside the Arena, connect the battery to the drone, and install the propellers. Additionally, your computer must be connected to the 'Quadrotor' network. 

However, in the case of the Intel Aero drones, whose PX4 is integrated into the onboard computer, it is also necessary to perform the following three steps:

1. Change the IP address of your computer to 192.168.1.240.

2. Connect via ssh to the Intel Aero Compute Board. The name and IP address of each drone is written on its airframe. For instance, for the drone designated dsor-aero-2, the ssh connection to the onboard computer is performed through the command:

'''bash
ssh dsor@192.168.1.242
pass: dsor
'''

3. Finally, run the start_vehicle_comms script. This script receives, as an argument, the name of the quadrotor.

'''bash
cd AeroManager
sudo ./start_vehicle_comms.sh dsor-aero-2
'''
